
<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit that file -->

# `EflowStats`

Calculates a suite of ecological flow statistics and fundamental
properties of daily streamflow for a given set of data.

### Installation

To install the latest release of EflowStats see
[releases](https://github.com/USGS-R/EflowStats/releases) to find the
latest version and use:

``` r
remotes::install_github("USGS-R/EflowStats@v5.0.3")
```

### Code of Conduct

We want to encourage a warm, welcoming, and safe environment for
contributing to this project. See the [code of
conduct](https://github.com/USGS-R/EflowStats/blob/master/CONDUCT.md)
for more information.

### Reporting bugs

Please consider reporting bugs and asking questions on the [Issues
page.](https://github.com/USGS-R/EflowStats/issues)

### Package Support

The Water Mission Area of the USGS has supported the development and
maintenance of the `EflowStats` R-package. Further maintenance is
expected to be stable until further notice. Resources are available
primarily for maintenance and responding to user questions. Priorities
on the development of new features are determined by the `EflowStats`
development team.

![USGS](http://usgs-r.github.io/images/usgs.png)

### Overview

The `EflowStats` package was created to simplify the process of
generating hydrologic indicator statistics using daily streamflow
records. It has been specifically designed to work seamlessly with U.S.
Geological Survey (USGS) National Water Information System (NWIS) data.
This package is intended to be an update of the previously existing USGS
National Hydrologic Assessment Tool (NAHAT) program with additional
statistics previously published by Archfield et al (Archfield).

### References

Henriksen, J.A., Heasley, J. Kennen, J.G., and Nieswand, S., 2006,
Users’ manual for the Hydroecological Integrity Assessment Process
software (including the New Jersey Assessment Tools): U.S. Geological
Survey Open-File Report 2006-1093. 72
p. (<https://pubs.usgs.gov/of/2006/1093/report.pdf>)

Archfield, S.A., J.G. Kennen, D.M. Carlisle, and D.M. Wolock. 2013. An
Objective and Parsimonious Approach for Classifying Natural Flow Regimes
at a Continental Scale. River Res. Applic. doi: 10.1002/rra.2710
(<http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/rra.2710/abstract>)

# Disclaimer

This software is preliminary or provisional and is subject to revision.
It is being provided to meet the need for timely best science. The
software has not received final approval by the U.S. Geological Survey
(USGS). No warranty, expressed or implied, is made by the USGS or the
U.S. Government as to the functionality of the software and related
material nor shall the fact of release constitute any such warranty. The
software is provided on the condition that neither the USGS nor the U.S.
Government shall be held liable for any damages resulting from the
authorized or unauthorized use of the software.

[![CC0](https://i.creativecommons.org/p/zero/1.0/88x31.png)](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/)
